Introduction:

Background:
For this project, we attempted to look for a way to predict stock prices using news article titles. The article titles are taken 
are taken from the New York Times; we then try and use theres titles to help predict the Dow Jones Industrial Average(DIJA) index prices
which was taken from Yahoo Finance. The range of the data spans a decade from 2007 - 2016 inclusive. We Hypothesize that positive news should lead 
to an increase in the DIJA prices while negative news should lower the DIJA prices.

Methods used and why:
To help us predict the prices, we used a number of machine learning algorithms from regressions to random forest and ending with neural 
network-based algorithm, multilayer perceptron (MLP).
The prediction process is a time-series issue and very similar to linear regression. From the regression family we selected logistics regression
and ensemble algorithm RandomForestRegressor. With both these algorithms found lacking we implemented the neural network-based algorithm MLP.


The data is split between testing and training data. The training data is then fed into the algorithm
before the testing data is tested. The methods are then evaluated to see how accurate they are, 
this is done through finding the r^2 coefficient value as well as simply examining a visual output.
The r^2 value have it's own built-in function which we used to find the value while for the visual output
we graphed the actual values contrasted to the predicted values to see how close the predictions were.

Some other ways to help improve the accuracy of the estimated include smoothing and alignment. 
Alignment:
  - Take a contant value and add that onto the predicted values to ensure that it is aligned with
    the actual values
  - It is the difference between the average estimated prices and the real prices over a certain
    time range.
Smoothing:
  - Used Exponentially Weighted Moving Average(EWMA) which has a built-in API



Conclusion:
Both regression algorithms were found lacking even with the help of smoothing and alignment they were not very accurate in their estimates. 
They were not following the path of the actual data in their estimates therefore are unable to accurately and consistently predict stock index
prices. 
In the end MLP was the most effective approach especially when combined with cross-validation do find the best variable levels.
Looking at the graph, this method method's estimations are the closest and most similar to the real index prices therefore it can 
provide accurate estimates given article titles. 
The Two regression algorithms are qutie straightwardard and simple to use with readily available built in functions but due to the data
not being normalized as well some overfitting issues they were found lacking

MLP is best at estimations in the algorithms that we tried but it has it's own issues. 
There are many types of artificial neural network algorithms for a variety of types of problems but MLP is a Feedfoward Neural Network(FNN), the simplest
types of neural network models. Recurrent Neural Networks(RNN) however may have been a better option albeit more complicated to program as unlike FNN where
it is a one direction flow of information, input --> output, in RNNs they have directed cycles allowing the persistence of data very fitting for time-series 
problem. Dealing with stocks predictions over long periods of time and especially with economic markets having a lag in response time, this persistence of
information overtime may provide even more accurate estimations. With the MLP algorithm, it actually doesn't take into account time and dates, it does not take
into account the information about yesterday or the day before when determining the estimated price of today which lowers the accuracy of the estimations. 
In MLPs themselves, one of the most important aspect are the layers, they determine the efficiency and scale of the model. The main aspects that we could have 
changed in the layers, are the number of layers for each category(input, hidden and output) as well as the weight given. The layer variables were determined through
cross-validation to find the most optimal/accurate values. 


